Chapter One
Basics of Economics     
    # Definition of economics
        "There is no universally accepted definition of economics, because different economists defined economics 
         from different perspectives."
         "Economics is a social science which studies about efficient allocation of scarce resources so as to attain 
          the maximum fulfillment of unlimited human needs."
         "economics is a science of choice, it studies how people choose to use scarce or limited productive resources
          to produce something"
        Key points
         * Study about scarce resources
         * Study about allocation of resources;
         * Allocation should be efficient;
         * Human needs are unlimited
         * Study how to satisfy the unlimited human needs 

    # The rationales of economics
        The two fundamental facts 
            * Human ("society's") material wants are unlimited
            * Economic resources are limited ("scarce").
        - Study How we make choices to use the scarce resources ( Decision Making)
        - Study How various choice s outcome based on Efficiency , Equity , Stability  
    # Scope and method of analysis in economics
        # Scope of economics
        the core of modern economics is formed by its two major branches:             

        "Microeconomics" 
             concerned with the economic behavior of individual decision making
             Studies "individual" economic units of an economy.
             Its central problem is "price determination" and "allocation of resources".
             Its main tools are the demand and supply of "particular" commodities and factors
             Concerned with how the "equilibrium" of "a consumer", "a producer" or "an industry" is attained

        "Macroeconomics" 
             deals with the effects and consequences of the aggregate behaviour of all decision making 
             Studies an economy as a "whole" and its "aggregates"
             Its central problem is determination of "level of income" and "employment".
             Its main tools are "aggregate" demand and "aggregate" supply of an economy as a "whole"
             Concerned with the determination of "equilibrium" "levels of income" and "employment" at "aggregate level".
    
    #  Positive and normative analysis
        The two perspectives of economics are :

            "Positive Economics" 
                Concerned with analysis of facts and attempts describe the world as it is 
                It does not judge a system as good or bad, better or worse
            "Normative Economics"
                Evaluates the desirability of alternative outcomes based on ones value judgments about what is good or what is bad 
                It is loaded with judgments 
                It is a matter of opinion Since What is good for one may not be the same for others
                Any disagreement can be solved by voting  

    # Inductive & Deductive Reasoning in economics 
        The two methods of logical reasoning :
            
            "Inductive reasoning" 
                A logical method of "reaching" at a "correct general statement" from several "independent" and "specific correct statements".
                Deriving theory by moving from "facts" to "theories" and from "particular" to "general" economic analysis. 
                It involves :
                    1. Selecting problem for analysis
                    2. Collection, classification, and analysis of data
                    3. Establishing cause and effect relationship between economic phenomena.
            "Deductive reasoning"
                A logical way of arriving at a particular or specific correct statement starting from a correct general statement.
                It involves :
                    1. Problem identification
                    2. Specification of the assumptions
                    3. Formulating hypotheses
                    4. Testing the validity of the hypotheses
                



